# Life Cycle of a Call

https://freeswitch.org/confluence/display/FREESWITCH/Life+Cycle+of+a+Call
A description of how FreeSWITCH processes a typical SIP call.

Call States
Routing
在路由状态下，FreeSWITCH™通过XML拨号计划进行搜索。 When it finds a condition test that returns true it builds a to-do list with name–value action pairs, including lists of variables to set and dialplan applications to execute later such as "bridge". During this routing state none of the applications encountered will be executed, except for a limited number that can be run immediately by including the "inline" attribute.

Execute
The execute state performs the instructions compiled in the routing state. The name–value pairs are parsed and executed.
执行状态执行在路由状态下编译的指令。解析并执行名称 - 值对。
Hangup
The hangup state either transfers the call back to the routing state, if there is a name–value pair that requests it, or else it will hang up the call.
如果存在请求它的名称 - 值对，则挂断状态将呼叫转移回路由状态，否则它将挂断呼叫

Channel States
A channel (representing a call leg) will go occupy many different states during its lifetime. The table below lists the different states that a channel can occupy, and what each of those states means.

CS_NEW	Channel is newly created.
CS_INIT	Channel has been initialized.
CS_ROUTING	Channel is hunting through a dialplan for an extension to execute.
CS_SOFT_EXECUTE	Channel is ready to execute from 3rd party control.
CS_EXECUTE	Channel is executing its dialplan instructions.
CS_EXCHANGE_MEDIA	Channel is exchanging media with another channel.
CS_PARK	Channel is accepting media awaiting commands.
CS_CONSUME_MEDIA	Channel is consuming all media and dropping it.
CS_HIBERNATE	Channel is in a sleep state.
CS_RESET	Channel is in a reset state.
CS_HANGUP	Channel is flagged for hangup and ready to end. Media will now end, and no further call routing will occur.
CS_REPORTING	The channel is already hung up, media has already ended, and now it's time to do any sort of reporting processes such as CDR logging.
CS_DESTROY	Channel is ready to be destroyed and out of the state machine. Memory utilized by the channel is freed and memory pools are returned to the core.
State Handlers
Custom state handlers can be added to the channels either globally or on a per-channel basis. This will allow you to do your own custom reporting or clean up your own dynamically created objects, for example. Custom handlers can also then be removed from a channel.

