# Firewall

## About

If you are going to route traffic across your network, you need to ensure that you do not have a firewall blocking traffic on the specified network paths. Commonly firewalls are installed at egress points, where your local network connects to the internet. You may also run a firewall on the server itself. This is not always the case in some corporate environments. If you are not responsible for your network, you may wish to contact the group or individuals who are responsible for it.

Information they may need to enable traffic would include the port numbers. Various protocols use different ports for different things. Some you need bi-directional connectivity, some you only need outbound. Depending on your call scenario you may only need to allow connections that are initiated by your system. If you have any problems with protocols not working, it is recommended that you disable your firewall to the FreeSWITCH™ system, place a test call, and see if the problem persists. A misconfigured firewall is responsible for many common problems.

## Typical Ports

|FireWall Ports|Network Protocol|Application Protocol|Description|
|------|------|------|------|
|1719|UDP|H.323| Gatekeeper RAS port|
|1720|TCP|H.323| Call Signaling|
|3478|UDP|STUN | service Used for NAT traversal|
|3479|UDP|STUN | service Used for NAT traversal|
|5002|TCP|MLP |protocol server|
|5003|UDP|Neighborhood| service|
|5060|UDP & TCP|SIP UAS|Used for SIP signaling (Standard SIP Port, for default Internal Profile)|
|5070|UDP & TCP|SIP UAS|Used for SIP signaling (For default "NAT" Profile)|
|5080|UDP & TCP|SIP UAS|Used for SIP signaling (For default "External" Profile)|
|8021|TCP|ESL|Used for mod_event_socket *|
|16384-32768|UDP|RTP/ RTCP| multimedia streaming sUsed for audio/video data in SIP, Verto, and other protocols|
|5066|TCP|Websocket|Used for WebRTC|
|7443|TCP|Websocket|Used for WebRTC|

## ESL SECURITY RISK ESL安全风险

Think carefully about opening the ESL port to the external world and change the default password. ESL allows any system commands to be run or even to crash FreeSWITCH for call recovery testing. Allowing public access is therefore a security risk.
仔细思考打开ESL港口外部世界和修改默认密码。ESL允许任何运行系统命令甚至崩溃FreeSWITCH调用恢复测试。因此,允许公众访问一个安全风险。

Note that the ports may vary depending on which modules you have loaded and their configuration, for instance you may have more or fewer SIP profiles, and you may have changed many of the above ports including SIP,RTP,ESL etc.

## Linux netfilter iptables

THIS IS REQUIRED IF YOU ARE USING AN IPTABLES FIREWALL!!!

You must add the interface and port numbers for each sip_profile used in your FreeSWITCH installation.

 



The nf_conntrack_sip and nf_conntrack_h323 modules will watch unencrypted SIP/H323 and automatically open the firewall ports required for RTP if you are accepting packets with the RELATED state. SIP and H323 packets after the first packet will be in the ESTABLISHED state. If you allow any RELATED,ESTABLISHED packets before processing new/unknown packets, then your firewall will accept subsequent packets much sooner, resulting in lower CPU usage and latency.

This may only apply to packets on the standard ports (UDP/5060, TCP/5060, TCP/1720) as it requires that the firewall recognizes the SIP/H323 protocol the packets are using.

This is of course not possible for encrypted connections, as the firewall cannot look inside the VoIP packets to get the RTP IPs and ports. With the imperative of encrypted communications, these steps are necessary to allow traffic through the firewall.

Module options
You may need to adjust the following options in some configurations, e.g. setting sip_direct_media=0 for bypass media (either done by FreeSWITCH's bypass_media or by a gateway).

Module	Option	Description	Values	Default*
nf_conntrack_sip	sip_direct_signalling	Expect incoming calls from registrar only*	0/1	1
nf_conntrack_sip	sip_direct_media	Expect Media streams between signalling endpoints only	0/1	1
nf_conntrack_sip	sip_timeout	Timeout for the master SIP session	Integer	3600
nf_conntrack_sip	ports	Port numbers of SIP servers*	List of up to 8 port numbers (comma-separated) eg. 5060,5070,5080	5060
nf_conntrack_h323	default_rrq_ttl	Use this TTL if it's missing in RRQ	Integer	300
nf_conntrack_h323	gkrouted_only	Only accept calls from gatekeeper	Integer	1
nf_conntrack_h323	callforward_filter	Only create call forwarding expectations if both endpoints are on different sides (determined by routing information)	Integer	1
Module options are given when loading the module, e.g. "modprobe nf_conntrack_sip ports=5060,5080" to use a non-default setting. Modules will need to be unloaded and reloaded to change their options.

The two most commonly used options are "ports" and "sip_direct_media".

You can check the current module parameter values by viewing the special files in /sys/module/nf_conntrack_sip/parameters/

Configuration
If your distribution supports /etc/modules.conf:

/etc/modules.conf
open /etc/modules.conf in an editor

add the line:

options nf_conntrack_sip [options]
If your distribution supports /etc/modprobe.d/:

/etc/modprobe.d/
Create a file 50-nf_conntrack_sip.conf and open it in an editor

add the line:

options nf_conntrack_sip [options]
If your module is loaded using modprobe (eg. in rc.local):

modprobe
modprobe nf_conntrack_sip [options] 
Notes
sip_direct_signalling=1 and gkrouted_only=1 will still allow all incoming calls if you have a rule such as "-p udp --dport 5060 -j ACCEPT" for the protocol, since you are explicitly allowing signaling instead of relying on the module.

Default values are taken from linux-source-2.6.26 on Debian 2010/02/26, and may vary in later versions.

Side effects
Invalid SIP packets may be silently dropped by iptables even if all packets are allowed (e.g. if they have no CSeq header). This should not be an issue for FreeSWITCH, since it only sends valid SIP packets.

Example
This is a basic firewall setup using just IPTABLES on Debian Squeeze.

Back up your current iptables rules
iptables-save > ~/iptables.up.rules.vanilla
Create new rules
Example iptables rules  Expand source
 

 

These six rules below will block the vast majority of all sip scanner traffic that randomly scans the Internet. Use these rules in conjunction with Fail2Ban and you will be in good shape to avoid rogue attackers.

SIP scanner iptables block
iptables -I INPUT -j DROP -p udp --dport 5060 -m string --string "VaxSIPUserAgent" --algo bm
iptables -I INPUT -j DROP -p udp --dport 5060 -m string --string "friendly-scanner" --algo bm
iptables -I INPUT -j DROP -p udp --dport 5060 -m string --string "sipcli" --algo bm
iptables -I INPUT -j DROP -p udp --dport 5080 -m string --string "VaxSIPUserAgent" --algo bm
iptables -I INPUT -j DROP -p udp --dport 5080 -m string --string "friendly-scanner" --algo bm
iptables -I INPUT -j DROP -p udp --dport 5080 -m string --string "sipcli" --algo bm
 

Turn on the rules
iptables-restore < ~/iptables.fs.rules
The rules are now turned on. Test and make changes to your firewall as necessary.

Save the final rules
Once you are happy with your rules, save them.

iptables-save > /etc/iptables.up.rules
Load rules on boot
vim /etc/network/if-pre-up.d/iptables
 
#!/bin/bash
/sbin/iptables-restore < /etc/iptables.up.rules
 
chmod +x /etc/network/if-pre-up.d/iptables


 